p8105_hw2_am4656
================
Aaron Mittel
2022-10-04

# Problem 1

*Imported “NYC_Transit_and_Subway_Entrance_and_Exit_Data.csv” from a
relative file path to my working directory, cleaned column names, and
then selected for only “line, station, name, station latitude /
longitude, routes served, entry, vending, entrance type, and ADA
compliance” by selecting for the range of columns incorporating those
variables and removing unwanted variables. Then, converted the entry
variable from character (YES vs NO) to a logical variable using
“ifelse”.*

Following these procedures, this dataset is now organized into **19
columns and 1868 rows**. The dataset contains variables describing
individual tracks/lines of the New York city subway transit system by
the associated street (e.g. 4th Avenue) that the track/line runs along,
stations along each track/line, individual trains/routes (e.g. A, B, C,
or D) that run on each track/line, geographic positions of each station,
and basic features of each station (whether a vending machine is
present, stairs or elevator used for access, whether the station is ADA
compliant).

The data is tidier than it once was. However, it does have some
redundancy and can be improved. Route \# should be a variable and route
should also be a variable (done below).

*We can select for unique combinations of station name, line, and ADA
accesability using the “distinct” function”.*

-   There are **465** distinct stations.

-   There are **84** distinct stations that are ADA compliant.

*We can compute the proportion of station entrances without vending that
allow entrance by first excluding station entrances that do not allow
vending. Then, we can take the mean of the entry variable (which will
produce the desired proportion because R will coerce logical to numeric
in cases like this).*

-   The proportion of station entrances without vending that allow
    entrance is thus **0.3770492**.

*We can identify distinct stations that serve the A train and are ADA
compliant by tidying the data to convert `route` from wide to long
format and filtering to focus on the A train.*

    ## # A tibble: 17 × 2
    ##    station_name                  line            
    ##    <chr>                         <chr>           
    ##  1 14th St                       8 Avenue        
    ##  2 168th St - Washington Heights 8 Avenue        
    ##  3 175th St                      8 Avenue        
    ##  4 34th St                       8 Avenue        
    ##  5 42nd St                       8 Avenue        
    ##  6 59th St                       8 Avenue        
    ##  7 Inwood - 207th St             8 Avenue        
    ##  8 West 4th St                   8 Avenue        
    ##  9 World Trade Center            8 Avenue        
    ## 10 Times Square-42nd St          Broadway        
    ## 11 59th St-Columbus Circle       Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 12 Times Square                  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 13 8th Av                        Canarsie        
    ## 14 Franklin Av                   Franklin        
    ## 15 Euclid Av                     Fulton          
    ## 16 Franklin Av                   Fulton          
    ## 17 Howard Beach                  Rockaway

Thus, there are only **17** stations that serve the A train that are ADA
compliant.

## Problem 2
